[MUSIC]
We're gonna talk about
variables a little bit more,
specifically a type of variables
called global variables.
They are used a lot, so
you need to know what they are.
In small programs, maybe they are okay.
Generally, they are dangerous.
They are risky, but
you certainly need to know what they are.
So let's explain them.
So generally, regular variables
are declared inside a function and
they only exist inside that function.
So not ignoring what
the pictures I have up there,
think about in the last lecture,
you have a function called foo and
inside that function called foo
you declare a variable int i.
Now that int i,
that i is alive when you're executing foo.
Only within foo, so
it's scope is limited to the execution
of the function where it is defined.
So what that means is if
you have a main function,
which calls foo, the main doesn't see i.
Since you defined i inside foo,
i is only visible inside foo and
then main can't see it.
So that's normal variables and they call
those local variables, cuz this variable,
they say a variable's scope,
it exists locally.
Its scope is bound by the function
in which it is defined, so
It's a local variable.
So if I say, int i inside my function foo,
then that i only exists inside foo.
And if I have another function called
bar or something like that and I say,
int x, that x only exists inside bar and
so on.
So those are local variables,
the standard variables.
Now you can also have global variables.
A global variable is basically a variable
where more than one function can see that
variable.
They share a copy of the same variable.
So if you look at the top, int global_i.
So I've defined some variable called
global_i and it's an i variable,
which is global.
I want everybody to see it.
So I declare it, int global_i.
Note that in order to make a variable
global, first thing you've got to do is
declare it outside of any function,
which is what I've done.
I could have ten functions,
I'm only showing foo, but I could have ten
functions, but I declare this global
variable outside of any function.
Cuz if you declare it inside a function,
it becomes local to that function.
So, I declare it outside.
Now in addition, what you have to do in
order for this variable to be globally
seen by other functions, every function
where you want this variable to be seen,
to be used,
you have to declare it as an extern.
So look at that foo, it says,
extern into global_i.
So, it looks like I'm
re-declaring the same variable.
But notice I put that extern in front of
it, which means it's an external variable.
So that means that this
is gonna be global.
So in my foo for the top of it, if I say,
extern int global_i, then anytime I refer
to global i inside my foo, I'm referring
to the one global_i that everybody sees.
So those are the two things you have
to do to make a global variable.
First, define the variable
outside of any function.
Then inside every function where
you wanna use that global variable,
you have to declare it as an extern.
Extern and or extern float, whatever
type it is, gives you the variable name.
Now that second thing about
declaring it as an extern variable,
that is not strictly always true.
And in fact, in the Arduino
sketches that we're gonna see,
they don't adhere to that.
So the one thing you have to do is
declare the variable outside of any
other function, but that extern,
you don't have to do that.
As long as you declare this global
variable outside of the scope of any other
function, you declare it
at the top of your file and
you're using only one c file, then you
don't have to do the extern into global_i.
[COUGH] If you just refer to
global_i inside your foo,
it will know that you mean the global one.
But that only works,
if foo is in the same file and
foo is defined after
the global_i is declared.
So in our Arduino's sketches, you'll see
where they'll, like right at the top of
the sketch, they'll define some external
variable into x or something like that.
And then inside all of these functions,
they'll use x, but
they won't extern it and that will work.
Now the extern way is the proper way to do
it and if you have a big problem, which
we're probably not gonna get to programs
this big and complicated in this class.
But if you have a big program,
you've got multiple C files,
multiple C++ files, whatever they are and
you wanna have a global variable that
spans all these different files,
then you have to use the extern.
Otherwise, one file won't see it.
So that's a global variable.
So global variables can be dangerous
in the sense that the program is less
compartmentalized, so
they're sharing variables.
So what that means is if two
functions share the same variable,
then one function can alter and
mess up another function.
So in this case,
we see a foo and we see bar.
So foo writes to global_ i,
global_i equals a plus b,
whatever it is and
then bar uses global_i to assign x.
Now if somehow foo does something
wrong say, foo is written incorrectly,
say it has a bug.
So it writes to global_i, but
it writes the wrong value to global_i,
then that bug is not just contained
inside foo, that bug now spreads to bar.
Because not only does foo do something
wrong, but now bar is forced to do
something wrong, because bar is
getting the wrong data from foo.
So it's just another connection
between functions and
it's not an obvious
connection between functions.
So that's another bad problem, because one
way to connect functions to trade data
between functions is if one function calls
another function, it passes that data in
the form of an argument and
that's a nice narrow interface.
Meaning, you know this is the pipeline
of information, but globals are these
Information type lines between functions
that are not obvious to the programmer.
So, it's hard to necessarily remember
all the global interactions.
So these type of things are more difficult
to see, they're connections between
functions that are more difficult
to see for a programmer.
So it makes debugging hard, because when
the problem happens it's hard to remember,
oh, wait a minute that's right.
Foo is passing data to
bar through this global.
So if foo went wrong that could have
messed up bar, it's just another
consideration you have to worry
about when you're doing debugging.
So debugging can become harder
when the code is less modular,
because of global variables.
So generally,
you try to avoid using global variables.
But especially in these Arduino sketches,
they're so short people use them anyway
and they are so small that maybe
it doesn't matter at that scale.
It's sort of a bad programming
practice to get into though, but
I tell you I see it a lot
in Arduino sketches.
Thank you.
[MUSIC]